.TH PDFPRES 1 "March 2010" "pdfpres" "Dual head PDF presenter"
.SH NAME
pdfpres \- Dual head PDF presenter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY pdfpres
.OP \-w
.OP \-n
.OP \-s slides
.OP \-c cache
.I FILE
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpdfpres\fP is a presentation program for PDF files. It uses a "dual
head"-layout: One window shows the previous, current and next slides
while another window only shows the current slide. That additional
window can be moved to an external screen (such as a beamer). Thus, you
can present your slides on a beamer while keeping an eye on what's
coming up next.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-s\fP \fIslides\fP
This parameter allows you to specify how many slides before/after the
current slide you wish to see, i.e. 3 means "preview the next 3 slides
while still showing the previous 3 slides". The default is 1.

Attention: It is recommended to set the number of slides not greater
than 2 unless you have a large screen with a high resolution.
.TP
\fB-c\fP \fIcache\fP
Specify the number of slides that can be cached/pre-rendered.

Be aware, though, that this value will always be at least "number of pdf
viewports" * 2. This is needed so that we can pre-render the current and
next slide for each viewport. Hence, switching to the next (or previous)
slides will always be instant.
.TP
\fB-w\fP
Enables wrapping. When you're on the last slide and wrapping is enabled,
switching to the "next" slide actually switches to the very first slide.
.TP
\fB-n\fP
Enables "note control". The number of the slide which is currently shown
will be written to STDOUT. You can pipe this information to another
program. That'll allow you to do fancy things.
.SH KEYS
Use the \fBcursor keys\fP to navigate (\fBSpace\fP, \fBReturn\fP also go
the next slide). \fBLeft Mouse\fP switches to the next slide, \fBRight
Mouse\fP switches to the previous slide.
.P
\fBp\fP switches to \fB"fit page"\fP, this is the default.
.P
\fBw\fP switches to \fB"fit width"\fP mode, \fBh\fP switches to \fB"fit
height"\fP mode.
.P
\fBF5\fP forces a full refresh.
.P
\fBEscape\fP and \fBq\fP quit the program.
.P
Sometimes you need to browse your slides but that would, inevitably,
confuse the audience. So fixating the current slide on the beamer while
still allowing free navigation in the preview window should be quite
handy. Lock it by pressing \fBl\fP and unlock it with a capital \fBL\fP.
.P
In locked mode, press \fBJ\fP to jump to the currently selected slide.
.P
To switch to fullscreen, press \fBf\fP. You could also use your window
manager for this purpose. That is, \fBAlt + F11\fP would do the same in
Xfce.
.P
\fBs\fP starts the timer, pauses it and continues if paused. \fBr\fP
resets the timer.
.P
\fBc\fP toggles cursor visibility in presentation window.
.P
\fBi\fP enters note edit mode, \fBESC\fP leaves note edit mode.
.P
Type a number and then \fBG\fP or \fBRETURN\fP to jump to the
appropriate slide.
.SH CONFIGURATION
pdfpres writes all of its configuration variables to
\fB\fC$HOME/.config/pdfpres/config.xml\fR on exit. This file will look
like this:
.P
.EX
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<config>
	<initial_fit_mode v="2"/>
	<slide_context v="1"/>
	<do_wrapping v="0"/>
	<do_notectrl v="0"/>
	<cache_max v="32"/>
	<font_notes v="Sans 12"/>
	<font_timer v="Sans 35"/>
</config>
.EE
.P
For now, you're supposed to directly edit this file except for font
settings. If you change fonts inside pdfpres, they'll get saved
automatically.
.TP
.B initial_fit_mode
Accepts \fI0\fP, \fI1\fP or \fI2\fP meaning \fB"fit width"\fP,
\fB"fit height"\fP or \fB"fit page"\fP.
.TP
.B slide_context
Equivalent to the \fB-s ...\fP parameter.
.TP
.B cache_max
Equivalent to the \fB-c ...\fP parameter.
.TP
.B do_wrapping 
Equivalent to the \fB-w\fP parameter. \fI1\fP enables wrapping and
everything else disables it.
.TP
.B do_notectrl
Equivalent to the \fB-n\fP parameter. \fI1\fP enables note control and
everything else disables it.
.TP
.B font_notes
.TQ
.B font_timer
Set the font for notes and timer. This string will get parsed by
\fBpango_font_description_from_string\fP, so you might want to have a
look at the
.UR http://library.gnome.org\:/devel\:/pango\:/unstable\:/pango-Fonts.html\:#pango\:-font-description\:-from-string
GNOME API documentation
.UE
to see what's possible.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fC$HOME/.config/pdfpres/config.xml\fP
Local per user configuration.
.SH BUGS
Currently, no bugs are known. If you find one, we invite you to report
it at
.UR http://github.com/vain/pdfpres/issues
the GitHub Issue tracker
.UE .
